Extended Tour Documentation (#614)
open-component-model/ocm: examples/lib/tour/docsrc/06-signing-component-versions/README.md

# Signing Component Versions

This tour illustrates the basic functionality to
sign and verify signatures.

It covers two basic scenarios:
- [`sign`](01-basic-signing.go) Create, Sign, Transport and Verify a component version.
- [`context`](02-using-context-settings.go) Using context settings to configure signing and verification in target repo.

## Running the examples

You can just call the main program with some config file option (`--config <file>`) and the name of the scenario.
The config file should have the following content:

```yaml
targetRepository:
  type: CommonTransportFormat
  filePath: /tmp/example06.target.ctf
  fileFormat: directory
  accessMode: 2
ocmConfig: <your ocm config file>
```

> The actual version of the example just works with the filesystem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual version of the example just works with the file system
```

Author: done

```go
{{include}{../../06-signing-component-versions/01-basic-signing.go}{add version}}
```

Let's check the target for the new component version.

```go
{{include}{../../06-signing-component-versions/01-basic-signing.go}{lookup}}
```

Please note, that the version now contains a signature.

Finally, we check whether the signature is still valid for the
target version.

```go
{{include}{../../06-signing-component-versions/01-basic-signing.go}{verify}}
```

{{signing-context}}
### Using Context Settings to Configure Signing

Instead of providing all signing relevant information directly with
the signing or verification calls, it is possible to preconfigure
various information at the OCM context.

As usual, we start with getting access to an OCM context

```go
{{include}{../../06-signing-component-versions/02-using-context-settings.go}{default context}}
```

Then, we configure this context with optional ocm config defined in our config file.
See [OCM config scenario in tour 04]({{ocm-config-file}}).

```go
{{include}{../../06-signing-component-versions/02-using-context-settings.go}{configure}}
```

To sign a component version we need a private key.

> For this example, we again just create a local keypair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, we again just create a local key pair.
```
